HF Upconverter/TH/Assembly guide.md, before:

# Assembly guide for HF Upconverter (TH) module

## Manufacture of inductors
In the process of manufacturing this module, you will have to manufacture the inductors yourself for the used highpass / lowpass filters. Coils are made by winding an enameled copper wire of a certain diameter to a round workpiece of a certain diameter (it is convenient to use drills). Before winding the coil, clean one end of the wire from the insulation (use an aggressive solvent or insulation heating, approximately
3-5 mm.). When you start winding the coil, try to make the windings as close as possible to each other. After finishing the winding of the coil, remove the protective insulation from the other end of the coil and make tinning both ends. After doing this, your coil will be ready for installation on the PCB.

A small example of manufacturing an inductor: [Making a Simple Air Core Inductor (Induction Coil): 5 Steps]

Characteristics of coils for manufacturing:  
- **39 nH** - wire Ø0.5mm., coil Ø2.5mm., windings 4 - **3 pcs.**;  
- **330 nH** - wire Ø0.25mm., coil Ø2.5mm., windings 14 - **1 pcs.**;  
- **390 nH** - wire Ø0.25mm., coil Ø2.5mm., windings 16 - **1 pcs**;  

## Components installing 
In the beginning, it is recommended to install self-made inductors, since soldering and manufacturing of these elements can cause difficulties if you doing this for the first time. Other passive components can be mounted in any convenient order for you.  
However, it is strongly recommended that you **use an antistatic wrist strap and do not use soldering irons that are powered directly from the 220V / 110V network**, which can damage the crystal oscillator and mixer when soldering.

Recommendations for assembling components:

- Soldering self-made inductors.
- Soldering other passive components in any order.
- Soldering the power connector and the switch.
- Soldering SMA connectors.
- Soldering the diodes 1N4148 and LED.
- Soldering of the mixer.
- Soldering the crystall oscillator.

[Making a Simple Air Core Inductor (Induction Coil): 5 Steps]: <http://www.instructables.com/id/Making-a-Simple-Induction-Coil/>

Commit message:

Add installation recomendation and power supply recomendations.

HF Upconverter/TH/Assembly guide.md, after:

# Assembly guide for HF Upconverter (TH) module

## Manufacture of inductors
In the process of manufacturing this module, you will have to manufacture the inductors yourself for the used highpass / lowpass filters. Coils are made by winding an enameled copper wire of a certain diameter to a round workpiece of a certain diameter (it is convenient to use drills). Before winding the coil, clean one end of the wire from the insulation (use an aggressive solvent or insulation heating, approximately
3-5 mm.). When you start winding the coil, try to make the windings as close as possible to each other. After finishing the winding of the coil, remove the protective insulation from the other end of the coil and make tinning both ends. After doing this, your coil will be ready for installation on the PCB.

A small example of manufacturing an inductor: [Making a Simple Air Core Inductor (Induction Coil): 5 Steps]

Characteristics of coils for manufacturing:  
- **39 nH** - wire Ø0.5mm., coil Ø2.5mm., windings 4 - **3 pcs.**;  
- **330 nH** - wire Ø0.25mm., coil Ø2.5mm., windings 14 - **1 pcs.**;  
- **390 nH** - wire Ø0.25mm., coil Ø2.5mm., windings 16 - **1 pcs**;  

## Components installing 
In the beginning, it is recommended to install self-made inductors, since soldering and manufacturing of these elements can cause difficulties if you doing this for the first time. Other passive components can be mounted in any convenient order for you.  
However, it is strongly recommended that you **use an antistatic wrist strap and do not use soldering irons that are powered directly from the 220V / 110V network**, which can damage the crystal oscillator and mixer when soldering.

Recommendations for assembling components:

- Soldering self-made inductors.
- Soldering other passive components in any order.
- Soldering the power connector and the switch.
- Soldering SMA connectors.
- Soldering the diodes 1N4148 and LED.
- Soldering of the mixer.
- Soldering the crystall oscillator.

## Installation recommendations
If you use HF Upconverter, you will lose the ability to use software selectable Bias Tee (if this is offered by your SDR receiver). Therefore, if you use an active antenna (for example, Mini-Whip), you will definitely need to use a separate Power Feed Unit that is connected between the antenna and the converter.

Also, because of using of a 125 MHz value crystal oscillator, the frequency will be shifted to 125 MHz up (the frequency shift of our received radio station will look like this: 4.625 MHz + 125 MHz = 129.625 MHz). For convenience, you will need to set the value of the backward bias of -125 MHz in the receiving program (Gqrx, SDRSharp, etc.), but this action is not mandatory.

## Power supply recommendations
When powering the HF Upconverter, do not use power banks or other power supplies with impulse converters. These devices create a sufficiently large amount of interference, which can adversely affect the reception quality. When working from a laptop it is possible to use power from a free USB connector, or use a battery with a voltage of 5 V (or 7 - 20 V, LM317 version). In addition, a good solution will be the use of ferrite filters on power cables.

[Making a Simple Air Core Inductor (Induction Coil): 5 Steps]: <http://www.instructables.com/id/Making-a-Simple-Induction-Coil/>
